Add deployment guide for Heroku (#1617)
slackapi/bolt-js: docs/_future/deploy_your_app.md

permalink: /future/deploy-your-app
---

> # Deploy your app to Heroku<span class="label-beta">BETA</span>

Reviewer: what are your thoughts on keeping this as "Deploy your app" for now? I imagine once we have Run on Slack capabilities for Bolt this page will likely evolve and the Heroku guide may be transitioned elsewhere

Author: I have no objections! Always a fan of forward thinking 👏

<div class="section-content">

> Deploy your Bolt app to [the Heroku platform](https://dashboard.heroku.com/) to keep your app running at all hours of the day, not just during your development sessions!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, Bolt applications cannot be deployed on Slack infrastructure. However, never fear - you can deploy your Bolt app to [the Heroku platform](https://dashboard.heroku.com/) to keep your app running at all hours of the day, not just during your development sessions!
```

In this guide, you will find the steps needed to prepare and deploy your app to Heroku, as well as how to inspect your activity logs and make updates to your app.
</div>

---

> ### Before you begin {#prerequisites}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Before you begin {#before-you-begin}
```

> Before you can deploy a Bolt app to Heroku, you'll need a Bolt app that successfully starts with `slack run`. If you haven't created an app yet, [go ahead and make one](https://slack.dev/bolt-js/future/getting-started#create-app)! If you already have an app and want features of the next-generation platform, check out the [Bolt JS migration guide](https://slack.dev/bolt-js/future/migrate-existing-app).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can deploy a Bolt app to Heroku, you'll need a working Bolt app. If you haven't created one yet, [go ahead and make one](https://slack.dev/bolt-js/future/getting-started#create-app)! If you already have an app and want features of the next-generation platform, check out the [Bolt JS migration guide](https://slack.dev/bolt-js/future/migrate-existing-app). Once your app is set up, you can use the `slack run` command to make sure your app starts successfully.
```

If you are using Socket Mode, your `Procfile` should contain the following:
```sh
worker: node app.js
```

A Slack app using default web connections will have the following `Procfile`:

```sh
web: node app.js
```

With this new file saved, go ahead and commit it to your Git repository:

```sh
$ git add Procfile
$ git commit -m "Add Procfile"
```

#### Add the Git remote

Code is deployed to Heroku by pushing code from your local repository to the Git remote from when [you created an app](#create-a-heroku-app).

You can check if this remote was automatically added by the Heroku CLI when your app was created like so:

```sh
$ git remote -v
# heroku  https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git (fetch)
# heroku  https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git (push)
```

But if there is no `heroku` remote, you can add one as follows:

```sh
$ git remote add heroku https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git
```

### Deploy your app {#deploy-your-app}

After creating and configuring your Bolt and Heroku app, you're ready for deployment!

> > 💾 Any [triggers created with the CLI](https://api.slack.com/future/triggers#create_cli) for the local "(dev)" version of your app will continue to fire after deploying your app!

Author: Ye this definitely makes for a more full guide! I added a suggestion to have a trigger ready (as a prereq) and to use it when testing the deploy 🧪

#### Push your code

But before you can deploy, you should ensure that you have committed all of the source code your app needs to run!

You can see unstaged changes using `git status` and commit any changes using the same commands used for **Procfile**.

After adding and committing the source code of your app to the `main` branch of your repo, push it to your Heroku remote to start a deployment:

```sh
$ git push -u heroku main

> ```

Reviewer: Could we add some messaging here to indicate what a successful deployment looks like?

Author: Definitely something nice to add, good call! I pasted the end of some logs from a past deploy below (and added a few words) to possibly serve as this messaging!

#### Start your app

To kick things off on your Heroku app, you might have to scale up the dyno that runs your app.

For socket mode, this can be done by stopping the `web` dyno and starting the `worker` dyno:

```sh
$ heroku ps:scale web=0 worker=1
```

While apps using web connections can be started with just the `web` dyno:

```sh
$ heroku ps:scale web=1
```

> #### Using a public web address

Author: Do you think leaving this out of the header would be alright since the "web connections" note is shared below? The extra line length is causing the header to break lines on smaller screens which isn't really a problem, I just have a preference for the one-line header if possible!

> #### Using a public web address

Reviewer: after reading through this again - what are your thoughts on updating this header title to make it more explicit that this is only a required step if your app isn't using socket mode? I'm not sure what that would look like, maybe something like "Settings for apps not using Socket Mode" but with a bit more indication about what's inside this section?

Apps using web connections (and not Socket Mode) require that the **Request URL** is set to an address that can receive events and actions from Slack.

For this, we will use the "Web URL" found from `heroku info` to update the **Request URL** on both the **Interactivity & Shortcuts** page and the **Event Subscriptions** page for [your Slack app](https://api.slack.com/apps).

> 💡 Your **Request URL** will end with `/slack/events`, such as `https://aqueous-escarpment-85734.herokuapp.com/slack/events`

#### Test your Slack app

At this step your app should be live, listening for messages, events, or whatever you have coded up! Go ahead and jump into a workspace with your app to test things out!

> If you are using the [Bolt JS Starter Template `future` branch](https://github.com/slack-samples/bolt-js-starter-template/tree/future), now would be a good time to try out a link trigger and workflow. Sending a "hello" message to a channel that your bot is a member of should also elicit a response from your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the [Bolt for JavaScript Starter Template `future` branch](https://github.com/slack-samples/bolt-js-starter-template/tree/future), now would be a good time to try out a link trigger and workflow. Sending a "hello" message to a channel that your bot is a member of should also elicit a response from your app.
```

Sometimes problems arise in the deployment process that can be difficult to spot. If your app isn't working, [inspecting the activity logs](#activity-logs) may reveal the source of the problem.

### Updating the code {#update-code}

New features, functionalities, or other updates to your app can be deployed by committing a change and pushing it to Heroku. Your app will automatically be rebuilt to reflect the latest changes on your `main` branch, with the option to roll back to any previous version using `heroku releases:rollback [RELEASE]`.

> If you are using the Bolt JS Starter Template and want to see a change in action, update the greeting in `listeners/functions/hello-world.js` like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the Bolt for JavaScript Starter Template and want to see a change in action, update the greeting in `listeners/functions/hello-world.js` like so:
```

To inspect the live activity logs of your deployed app, run `heroku logs --tail`.

```
2022-10-07T17:47:59.026002+00:00 app[api]: Scaled to web@0:Free worker@1:Free by user you@email.com
2022-10-07T17:48:01.606472+00:00 heroku[worker.1]: Starting process with command `node app.js`
2022-10-07T17:48:02.353986+00:00 heroku[worker.1]: State changed from starting to up
...
2022-10-07T17:48:03.620821+00:00 app[worker.1]: [DEBUG]  web-api:WebClient:1 apiCall('apps.connections.open') start
2022-10-07T17:48:03.621182+00:00 app[worker.1]: [DEBUG]  web-api:WebClient:1 will perform http request
2022-10-07T17:48:03.662470+00:00 app[worker.1]: [DEBUG]  web-api:WebClient:1 http response received
2022-10-07T17:48:03.663064+00:00 app[worker.1]: [DEBUG]  socket-mode:SocketModeClient:0 Transitioning to state: connecting:authenticated
2022-10-07T17:48:03.666960+00:00 app[worker.1]: ⚡️ Bolt app is running! ⚡️
...
2022-10-07T17:48:03.692653+00:00 app[worker.1]: [DEBUG]  socket-mode:SocketModeClient:0 Transitioning to state: connected:ready
```

Here, you will find outputs and errors from your new Heroku app, giving you insight into your app's activity!

---

### Next steps {#next-steps}

> With all of this, you have just deployed, updated, and inspected your next-generation Bolt JS app on Heroku! 🎉

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You've just deployed, updated, and inspected your next-generation Bolt for JavaScript app on Heroku! 🎉
```

> You can now go forth to explore and customize your app using the different capabilities of the next-generation Platform if you please! Check out:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now go forth to explore and customize your app using the different capabilities of the next-generation Platform! Check out some of these features that will help you build the next-generation app of your dreams:
```

> * [Built-in functions](https://slack.dev/bolt-js/future/built-in-functions), a collection of Slack-native actions like sending a message or creating a channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Built-in functions](/bolt-js/future/built-in-functions), a collection of Slack-native actions like sending a message or creating a channel.
```

> * [Custom functions](https://slack.dev/bolt-js/future/custom-functions) for creating your own building blocks that accepts inputs, does something, and provides outputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Custom functions](/bolt-js/future/custom-functions) for creating your own building blocks that accepts inputs, does something, and provides outputs.
```

> * [Workflows](https://slack.dev/bolt-js/future/workflows) that combine functions into a sequence of steps that are executed in order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Workflows](/bolt-js/future/workflows) that combine functions into a sequence of steps that are executed in order.
```

> * [Triggers](https://slack.dev/bolt-js/future/triggers) for invoking a workflow in response to a link click, scheduled time, or another event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Triggers](/bolt-js/future/triggers) for invoking a workflow in response to a link click, scheduled time, or another event.
```

permalink: /future/deploy-your-app
---

# Deploy your app to Heroku<span class="label-beta">BETA</span>

<div class="section-content">
Currently, Bolt applications cannot be deployed on Slack infrastructure. However, never fear - you can deploy your Bolt app to [the Heroku platform](https://dashboard.heroku.com/) to keep your app running at all hours of the day, not just during your development sessions!

In this guide, you will find the steps needed to prepare and deploy your app to Heroku, as well as how to inspect your activity logs and make updates to your app.
</div>

---

### Before you begin {#before-you-begin}

> Before you can deploy a Bolt app to Heroku, you'll need a working Bolt app. If you haven't created one yet, [go ahead and make one](https://slack.dev/bolt-js/future/getting-started#create-app)! If you already have an app and want features of the next-generation platform, check out the [Bolt for JavaScript migration guide](https://slack.dev/bolt-js/future/migrate-existing-app). Once your app is set up, you can use the `slack run` command to make sure your app starts successfully.

Author: ```suggestion
Before you can deploy a Bolt app to Heroku, you'll need a working Bolt app. If you haven't created one yet, [go ahead and make one](/bolt-js/future/getting-started#create-app)! If you already have an app and want features of the next-generation platform, check out the [Bolt for JavaScript migration guide](/bolt-js/future/migrate-existing-app). Once your app is set up, you can use the `slack run` command to make sure your app starts successfully.
```

permalink: /future/deploy-your-app
---

# Deploy your app<span class="label-beta">BETA</span>

<div class="section-content">
Currently, Bolt applications cannot be deployed on Slack infrastructure. However, never fear - you can deploy your Bolt app to [the Heroku platform](https://dashboard.heroku.com/) to keep your app running at all hours of the day, not just during your development sessions!

In this guide, you will find the steps needed to prepare and deploy your app to Heroku, as well as how to inspect your activity logs and make updates to your app.
</div>

---

### Before you begin {#before-you-begin}

Before you can deploy a Bolt app to Heroku, you'll need a working Bolt app. If you haven't created one yet, [go ahead and make one](/bolt-js/future/getting-started#create-app)! If you already have an app and want features of the next-generation platform, check out the [Bolt for JavaScript migration guide](/bolt-js/future/migrate-existing-app).

> To test that your deploy is successful, having a Trigger that is easily invoked will be handy! Check out [the different types of Triggers](/future/triggers#types) and [the different ways to create a Trigger](/future/triggers#create) for tapping into your Workflows, creating one if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test that your deploy is successful, having a Trigger that is easily invoked will be handy! Check out [the different types of Triggers](/bolt-js/future/triggers#types) and [the different ways to create a Trigger](/bolt-js/future/triggers#create) for tapping into your Workflows, creating one if necessary.
```

---

### Create a Heroku app {#create-a-heroku-app}

With a Bolt app ready to go and Heroku tools installed, you're now ready to start deploying your Bolt app on Heroku!

#### Create a new app

From the command line, go to your project directory and start by creating a Heroku app with a unique name:

```sh
$ heroku create your-heroku-app
```

or have some fun with a random name:

```sh
$ heroku create
# Creating app... done, ⬢ aqueous-escarpment-85734
# https://aqueous-escarpment-85734.herokuapp.com/ | https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git
```

After your Heroku app is created, you'll be given app-specific information for use in later steps. From the example above:

* App name: `aqueous-escarpment-85734`
* Web address: `https://aqueous-escarpment-85734.herokuapp.com/`
* Git remote: `https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git`

#### Add environment variables

The tokens being used for your app (and any other environment variables) can be added to your deployed environment using the following commands:

```sh
$ heroku config:set SLACK_APP_TOKEN=xapp-your-app-level-token
$ heroku config:set SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=xoxb-your-bot-token
```

> These tokens can be collected from the "Basic Information" and "OAuth & Permissions" sections of [your App Config page](https://api.slack.com/apps) if ever misplaced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These tokens can be collected from [your App Config page](https://api.slack.com/apps) if ever misplaced. The app-level token can be found on the "Basic Information" page, while the bot-level token can be found under "OAuth & Permissions".
```

Note that these tokens and variables don't necessarily have to match those used in development! For instance, you may want to use tokens for a different app or a more verbose logging output in production. This is where you would set that.

### Prepare your app for Heroku {#prepare-your-app}

For a successful deployment, you'll need to set up a few additional things in your app.

#### Add a Procfile {#procfile}

To specify the start command of your app for Heroku, [a special file called `Procfile`](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/procfile) must be created in your app's root directory.

> The contents of this file will vary depending on if you have [Socket Mode](/bolt-js/concepts#socket-mode) enabled or not (which you can check for in your [Manifest](/bolt-js/future/app-manifests)) since apps using default web connections use HTTP requests when communicating with Slack.

Reviewer: Feel free to adjust the formatting / verbiage of this one as you see fit! Also updated the socket mode link to a better reference but lmk your thoughts on if you feel the bolt JS guide for Socket Mode is a better fit here!

```suggestion
The contents of this file will vary depending on if you have [Socket Mode](https://api.slack.com/apis/connections/socket) enabled or not. Socket Mode allows for your app to receive payloads through a private [WebSocket](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6455) URL that's generated at runtime rather than a public HTTP endpoint. To confirm whether Socket Mode is enabled with your application, you can either:
* Check your app's [Manifest](/bolt-js/future/app-manifests) to see if the `socketModeEnabled` property has been added and equals `true`, or
* Visit the [App Config page](https://api.slack.com/apps) for your application and check out the "Socket Mode" section to ensure the toggle is turned on:
<img width="670" alt="Screen Shot 2022-10-25 at 3 49 42 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12901850/197868321-63fff839-a3a2-4926-ae45-93c9d88cfd41.png">
```

Author: That api.slack.com page explains the Socket Mode concept quite nicely! I like this change since this seems to answer what Socket Mode is without subtly suggesting that this is the better way to run a Bolt app (which may be implied by linking to related docs that show _how_ to connect using sockets) 😄

You can view your unstaged changes using `git status` and commit those changes using the following flow:

```sh
# Add all remaining unstaged changes
$ git add .

# Commit the added files
$ git commit -m "Add in any final unstaged changes"
```

After adding and committing the source code of your app to the `main` branch of your repo, push it to your Heroku remote to start a deployment:

```sh
$ git push -u heroku main
```

Logs showing the process of your app being built by Heroku will then begin to stream in. After a moment for installing dependencies, messages indicating a successful deployment should follow as so:

```sh
remote: -----> Build succeeded!
remote: -----> Discovering process types
remote:        Procfile declares types     -> worker
remote:        Default types for buildpack -> web

remote: -----> Compressing...
remote:        Done: 44.2M
remote: -----> Launching...
remote:        Released v6
remote:        https://aqueous-escarpment-85734.herokuapp.com/ deployed to Heroku

remote: Verifying deploy... done.
To https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git
   5856f44..e322699  main -> main
branch 'main' set up to track 'heroku/main'.
```

#### Start your app

> To kick things off on your Heroku app, you might have to scale up the dyno that runs your app.

Reviewer: What are your thoughts on a quick sentence defining a dyno and then maybe linking out to an article with more info on the web / worker dynos?

permalink: /future/deploy-your-app
---

# Deploy your app<span class="label-beta">BETA</span>

<div class="section-content">
Currently, Bolt applications cannot be deployed on Slack infrastructure. However, never fear - you can deploy your Bolt app to [the Heroku platform](https://dashboard.heroku.com/) to keep your app running at all hours of the day, not just during your development sessions!

In this guide, you will find the steps needed to prepare and deploy your app to Heroku, as well as how to inspect your activity logs and make updates to your app.
</div>

---

### Before you begin {#before-you-begin}

Before you can deploy a Bolt app to Heroku, you'll need a working Bolt app. If you haven't created one yet, [go ahead and make one](/bolt-js/future/getting-started#create-app)! If you already have an app and want features of the next-generation platform, check out the [Bolt for JavaScript migration guide](/bolt-js/future/migrate-existing-app).

> To test that your deploy is successful, having a Trigger that is easily invoked will be handy! Check out [the different types of Triggers](/bolt-js/future/triggers#types) and [the different ways to create a Trigger](/bolt-js/future/triggers#create) for tapping into your Workflows, creating one if necessary.

Author: I'm a fan of both the rearrangement and the tooltip! I shaved off the line about automatic workspace installation since I think readers will have either already done this or discover this for themselves in the process of creating a trigger, but I have no problem having it in to make sure there are no cracks to slip through!

---

### Create a Heroku app {#create-a-heroku-app}

With a Bolt app ready to go and Heroku tools installed, you're now ready to start deploying your Bolt app on Heroku!

#### Create a new app

From the command line, go to your project directory and start by creating a Heroku app with a unique name:

```sh
$ heroku create your-heroku-app
```

or have some fun with a random name:

```sh
$ heroku create
# Creating app... done, ⬢ aqueous-escarpment-85734
# https://aqueous-escarpment-85734.herokuapp.com/ | https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git
```

After your Heroku app is created, you'll be given app-specific information for use in later steps. From the example above:

* App name: `aqueous-escarpment-85734`
* Web address: `https://aqueous-escarpment-85734.herokuapp.com/`
* Git remote: `https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git`

#### Add environment variables

The tokens being used for your app (and any other environment variables) can be added to your deployed environment using the following commands:

```sh

> $ heroku config:set SLACK_APP_TOKEN=xapp-your-app-level-token

Author: Thank you for catching this! I'm testing this now, and my cli seems to sometimes work in a project directory, but sometimes this error happens.. Definitely worth adding the flag!

$ heroku config:set SLACK_BOT_TOKEN=xoxb-your-bot-token
```

These tokens can be collected from [your App Config page](https://api.slack.com/apps) if ever misplaced. The app-level token can be found on the "Basic Information" page, while the bot-level token can be found under "OAuth & Permissions".

Note that these tokens and variables don't necessarily have to match those used in development! For instance, you may want to use tokens for a different app or a more verbose logging output in production. This is where you would set that.

### Prepare your app for Heroku {#prepare-your-app}

For a successful deployment, you'll need to set up a few additional things in your app.

#### Add a Procfile {#procfile}

> To specify the start command of your app for Heroku, [a special file called `Procfile`](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/procfile) must be created in your app's root directory.

Reviewer: Is this the root directory or just wherever the `app.js` file lives (which is typically the root?)

Author: This is the root directory of the project, where the `.git` folder also lives. Do you have any suggestions for how to make this more clear?

Reviewer: I think root directory works in that context! 👍 i was wondering specifically because the `Procfile` contents reference an `app.js` that looks like it should be in the same directory, but I think this is already pretty clear and straightforward 🙌

The contents of this file will vary depending on if your app connects with [Socket Mode](https://api.slack.com/apis/connections/socket) or uses public HTTP endpoints to handle requests. To check whether Socket Mode is enabled for your application, you can either:

* Check your app's [Manifest](/bolt-js/future/app-manifests) to see if `socketModeEnabled: true`, or
* Visit the "Socket Mode" section on your app's [App Config page](https://api.slack.com/apps) to check if Socket Mode has been enabled:

<img width="670" alt="The toggle for connecting with Socket Mode on the App Config page is enabled" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/12901850/197868321-63fff839-a3a2-4926-ae45-93c9d88cfd41.png">

If you are using Socket Mode, your `Procfile` should contain the following:

```sh
worker: node app.js
```

While those using default web connections will have the following `Procfile`:

```sh
web: node app.js
```

With this new file saved, go ahead and commit it to your Git repository:

```sh
$ git add Procfile
$ git commit -m "Add Procfile"
```

> #### Add the Git remote

Reviewer: What are your thoughts on moving this section to above the Procfile section?

Code is deployed to Heroku by pushing code from your local repository to the Git remote from when [you created an app](#create-a-heroku-app).

You can check if this remote was automatically added by the Heroku CLI when your app was created like so:

```sh
$ git remote -v
# heroku  https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git (fetch)
# heroku  https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git (push)
```

But if there is no `heroku` remote, you can add one as follows:

```sh
$ git remote add heroku https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git
```

### Deploy your app {#deploy-your-app}

After creating and configuring your Bolt and Heroku app, you're ready for deployment!

> > 💾 The [triggers created with the CLI](https://api.slack.com/future/triggers#create_cli) for the local "(dev)" version of your app will continue to fire after deploying your app!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 💾 The [triggers created with the CLI](https://api.slack.com/future/triggers#create_cli) for the local "(dev)" version of your app will continue to work after the app is deployed!
```

remote: -----> Compressing...
remote:        Done: 44.2M
remote: -----> Launching...
remote:        Released v6
remote:        https://aqueous-escarpment-85734.herokuapp.com/ deployed to Heroku

remote: Verifying deploy... done.
To https://git.heroku.com/aqueous-escarpment-85734.git
   5856f44..e322699  main -> main
branch 'main' set up to track 'heroku/main'.
```

#### Start your app

To kick things off on Heroku, you might have to scale up a dyno! Unlike the ancient creatures of an earlier era, these [dynos are lightweight containers](https://www.heroku.com/dynos) for running your app on the Heroku platform.

The [type of dyno you scale](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/dynos#dyno-configurations) will depend on your connection type, but should be similar to what you used in your `Procfile` since the dyno type determines which process is run.

Apps connecting with Socket Mode must stop the automatically created `web` dyno and start a `worker` dyno:

```sh
$ heroku ps:scale web=0 worker=1
```

While apps using web connections can be started with just the `web` dyno:

```sh
$ heroku ps:scale web=1
```

#### Using a public web address

> Apps using web connections (and not Socket Mode) require that the **Request URL** is set to an address that can receive events and actions from Slack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Apps using not using Socket Mode require that the **Request URL** is set to an address that can receive events and actions from Slack.
```

For this, we will use the "Web URL" found from `heroku info` to update the **Request URL** on both the **Interactivity & Shortcuts** page and the **Event Subscriptions** page for [your Slack app](https://api.slack.com/apps).

> 💡 Your **Request URL** will end with `/slack/events`, such as `https://aqueous-escarpment-85734.herokuapp.com/slack/events`

#### Test your Slack app

At this step your app should be live, listening for messages, events, or whatever else you have coded up! Go ahead and jump into a workspace with your app to test things out! 🚀

> Now would be a terrific time to try tripping your Trigger to test that your Workflows are executing as expected - though check that you're not running the app locally!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now would be a terrific time to try tripping your Trigger to test that your Workflows are executing as expected - however, make sure to confirm that you're not running the app locally! A successfully deployed Heroku app is one that is not running locally and will still fully execute your Trigger and all functionality associated with it.
```

> And sometimes problems arise in the deployment process that can be difficult to spot. If your app doesn't seem to be running, [inspecting the activity logs](#activity-logs) may reveal the source of the problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> 💡 Sometimes problems arise in the deployment process that can be difficult to spot. If your app doesn't seem to be running or executing functionality from your Triggers, [inspecting the activity logs](#activity-logs) may reveal the source of the problem.
```

### Updating the code {#update-code}

New features, functionalities, or other updates to your app are _automatically_ deployed after being committed and pushed to the `main` branch on your Heroku remote! This is all possible thanks to [the `Procfile` made earlier](#procfile).

> 🎞 Different deployments of your app can be displayed with `heroku releases`, and you can rollback to a specific release using `heroku releases:rollback v12`.

> If you are using the Bolt for JavaScript Starter Template and want to see a change in action, update the greeting in `listeners/functions/hello-world.js` like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using the Bolt for JavaScript Starter Template and want to see a change in action, you can update the `greeting` variable declaration in `listeners/functions/hello-world.js` like so:
```

```js
// listeners/functions/hello-world.js
const greeting = `${salutation}, <@${recipient}>! :sparkles: A mysterious message has arrived for you: \n\n>${message}`;
```

Then add, commit, and push your code to deploy this change to Heroku:

```sh
$ git commit -am "Add mystery to the greeting message"
$ git push -u heroku main
```

> After the "Build succeeded!" and "Verifying deploy... done." messages appear, your app will have this newfound functionality!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the "Build succeeded!" and "Verifying deploy... done." messages appear, your app will have this newfound functionality! You can now test your Trigger again to verify the new change.
```

> ### Inspecting the activity logs {#activity-logs}

Reviewer: What are your thoughts on moving this above the "Updating the code" section?

2022-10-07T17:48:01.606472+00:00 heroku[worker.1]: Starting process with command `node app.js`
2022-10-07T17:48:02.353986+00:00 heroku[worker.1]: State changed from starting to up
...
2022-10-07T17:48:03.620821+00:00 app[worker.1]: [DEBUG]  web-api:WebClient:1 apiCall('apps.connections.open') start
2022-10-07T17:48:03.621182+00:00 app[worker.1]: [DEBUG]  web-api:WebClient:1 will perform http request
2022-10-07T17:48:03.662470+00:00 app[worker.1]: [DEBUG]  web-api:WebClient:1 http response received
2022-10-07T17:48:03.663064+00:00 app[worker.1]: [DEBUG]  socket-mode:SocketModeClient:0 Transitioning to state: connecting:authenticated
2022-10-07T17:48:03.666960+00:00 app[worker.1]: ⚡️ Bolt app is running! ⚡️
...
2022-10-07T17:48:03.692653+00:00 app[worker.1]: [DEBUG]  socket-mode:SocketModeClient:0 Transitioning to state: connected:ready
```

Here, you will find outputs and errors from your new Heroku app, giving you insight into your app's activity!

---

### Next steps {#next-steps}

Congratulations! You've just deployed, updated, and inspected your next-generation Bolt for JavaScript app on Heroku! 🎉

> You can now go forth to explore and customize your app using the different capabilities of the next-generation Platform! Check out some of these features that will help you build the next-generation app of your dreams:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now go forth to explore and customize your app using the different capabilities of the next-generation platform! Check out some of these features that will help you build the next-gen app of your dreams:
```
